So, actually, yeah let's talk about this.
So, the final phase of any good
convention is about maintenance,
cuz over time we're gonna see
conventions either fall in favor, or
fall out of favor with teammates.
And so, the number one thing here
that I can't stress enough is that,
it's really important to build emotional
safety and awareness within the team.
When we have bugs and things, when
people feel if they're being blamed as
individuals, you'll find that
it creates distrust on the team.
And this will make it harder for
not only conventions to be followed, but
like development speed will
ultimately get impacted.
And so when something goes wrong,
similar to like the bug question
that we had earlier from testing,
it's really important to find systematic
solutions to what's happening.
So rather than be like, the individual
did this incorrectly, we have to ask
ourselves, what part of the system allow
the individual to make this mistake.
Because again, even just being optimistic,
I still think most people don't
set out to break production.
They don't set out to accidentally
delete the production database.
Like these are problems with
the system that doesn't protect people
from making these mistakes.
And so, another term you might
hear in the tech community or
might not be just tech community but
foot guns or another thing, so
preventing people from shooting
themselves in the foot.
And so conventions do a good job of this,
because it allows us to focus on
the problem at hand and
the repeatable pattern,
rather than the individual which
is important for long term.
Sort of team health and safety,
when it comes to these things.
And if you happen to be in the power
where you are a team lead manager or
some sort of leadership role,
do whatever you can to protect your devs.
And so this means that when
things go wrong in production,
like not scapegoating, not allowing.
Other departments to say like, who is
the one person responsible for this?
Because the moment scapegoating
becomes part of a, like a culture,
you basically have people who are afraid
to explore and try out new ideas.
And this is yeah,
this is extremely dangerous for
the health of an organization,
and the ability to make progress.
And so, there's this principle that
was popularized primarily by Toyota,
it's called the jidoka principle.
And so here it's basically, a productivity
sort of like it's like a philosophy,
and it was popularized in Toyota I
think if I didn't say that earlier.
And so it's a four step part,
where the first piece is to
discover what that abnormality is.
As I mentioned earlier,
when a mistake happen not
figuring out what the individual did but,
what process allow that to happen.
And so, this is being taken in
a manufacturing sort of context.
So it says, to stop the process.
Now granted, most of the time you're
not gonna stop development in
its hole completely unlike
a manufacturing line, but
it is important to especially if the bug
is a critical one or has a major impact.
To sometimes have in all hands,
to be like, hey,
we have this problem where production
database got super impacted, because when
we ran the test, it accidentally pointed
to production instead of staging.
How did this happen, right?
These are the kind of things where you
do wanna stop the process, because these
things pay dividends in the long run,
once you can figure out what's wrong.
And so as we said, so
I went through some of the other steps,
but the reason I'm introducing this
is because the jidoka principle
is primarily responsible for what has
been popularized as the Andon Cord.
And so, the idea here was that Toyota at
the time would basically have this cord,
that anyone on the floor could
pull in order to stop production.
And if you think of it from an assembly
line, this is super expensive.
And traditionally speaking was like,
no one could do it unless
the manager said so.
But with the Andon Cord, what they
did is they said anyone on the floor,
if they saw something wrong,
no matter how low level they were.
They could pull the cord.
And then this would kick off this process
of like, why was it pulled, what happened?
What went wrong?
And so, when it comes to emotional safety
and these sort of pieces of maintenance,
I think every organization should
have that Andon Cord baiscally.
Regardless of whether it's the intern or
the junior developer,
who you might say, doesn't have
as much experience with things.
If they feel there's a concern with
the way things are being done, it's like
the environment we wanna create a safe
enough that anyone can bring that up.
Because a lot of times it's the people who
haven't been immersed in the process for
so long, that often can get a sense
of like maybe things could be better.
And so, that's why I was wanting
to introduce this is because.
As we think of tech culture
is going forward, right?
We talk a lot about different
sort of like things to consider,
when you're building
production level view apps.
But I think we all know
that at the end of the day,
what makes something production level and
scale over time is a lot of times that,
that culture that allows things to
grow and whether it's new features,
exploring new ideas, beyond JavaScript
frameworks and those things.
And so, as all of you, for
those of you who are watching.
As you're thinking about growing in
your career as senior developers, and
how you can continue to build applications
not only scale, but again, grow
the team as well, these are principles
I think that are often overlooked.
And it's because at the end of the day,
it's not the one technique
you use in view, right?
It's not cause you figured out how to use
scope slots, or that you figured out this
one technique that's ultimately
gonna make the difference.
In the long term longevity
of an application, or
basically engineering culture.